[Music]
so let me ask you how wise is your brain
we're about to test your intelligence
but if you're expecting some
run-of-the-mill IQ test think again
standard IQ tests are widely criticized
because they typically measure just one
type of intelligence whether it's
spatial visualization deductive
reasoning or just how good you are at
taking tests of course human
intelligence is way more complex than
that
what about wisdom and common sense can
you measure those of course you can are
you ready to find out how wise you are
then let's get this show on the road
you'll be given ten real life situations
and five seconds to decide which of the
two options you choose in each scenario
don't overthink your answers pick the
one that your gut instinct gravitates
towards immediately that way you'll get
more accurate results now if you need
more time feel free to pause the video
there are no right or wrong answers but
one approach might be wiser and thus
more effective than the other all right
here we go number one your kid has
started getting bad grades in math even
though you know they're a good student
do you lecture them about it or hire a
tutor
if you start lecturing your son or
daughter about their bad grades you
might be letting your own emotions blind
you to the best solution simply scolding
and yelling at someone who isn't doing
what you want does nothing to help the
situation it just makes that person feel
bad about themselves or get defensive
it's better to help your kid who's
struggling with a certain subject by
hiring a tutor that'll be a much better
solution to the problem number two
you're building a house do you do
everything on your own to cut costs
compensating for your lack of knowledge
with enthusiasm and online how-to videos
or hire a professional
if you DIY it you might be setting
yourself up for a disappointment as
Socrates said the wise man knows he
knows nothing in other words it's
important to know your limits if
something is way beyond your skill set
ask for help that's especially the case
if you're doing something as complex as
building a house challenging yourself
and believing in your abilities is good
and all but sometimes it's better to
trust a professional that's the wisest
solution
[Music]
number three you're pretty good at what
you do but you've never taught anyone
your skills your boss insists that you
lead a master class for students in your
field do you have faith in your
abilities and teach the class or refuse
to give a master class without teaching
experience again smart people know what
they can and can't do and just because
someone's an expert in a certain field
doesn't mean they'd make a good teacher
teaching others is a skill in and of
itself so if you know you're not cut out
for teaching and you're sure that you
won't help these students out very much
in their learning process then refusing
to give a master class isn't a bad
decision in this case it'd be wiser to
let an experienced teacher lead the
class number four you have some free
time do you indulge in a creative hobby
or zone out in front of the TV or gaming
console wise people have creative
hobbies they engage their minds and
other fields outside of what they do for
a living creating on your own can help
you think about life and solve problems
in new and unique ways you'll also get
to sharpen your mind and imagination by
telling stories drawing writing or
building things on the other hand if you
spend all of your free time passively
consuming entertainment rather than
engaging your creativity you miss out on
a lot of opportunity for growth and
mental exercise number five
you're broke do you blame your boss the
economy your parents social class or any
other sort of external factors or feel a
little discouraged but pick yourself up
and do something about it
hey we all feel dissatisfied with
ourselves and others sometimes it's only
natural but recognizing our
responsibility for fixing our own lives
is part of wisdom if you spend all your
time looking for someone else to blame
for your misfortunes you'll never find a
way forward
a wise person acknowledges their
financial troubles as a combination of
their circumstances and their own
actions and they come up with a plan to
correct the situation number six you
learn a lot in school but is it really
useful sure it's all useful in one way
or another knowledge in any form is
worth having or who needs calculus I'm
never gonna use that wise people
recognize the use of even seemingly not
applicable knowledge the wait numbers
work together can be applied to the
relationships between all sorts of
things in the real world learning for
the sake of learning is never a waste of
time and who knows when an insight you
pick up in class will have an unexpected
use in the real world if you're wise you
know there's no such thing as useless
knowledge number seven
you have a co-worker who is much more
capable than you you're afraid he'll try
to take your position in the team what
do you do get rid of them your job is a
stick or try to work with them the wise
decision here is to look past your
jealousy of someone who's smarter or
more skilled than you and consider how
you can benefit personally from their
skill set
definitely don't humiliate this other
employee that's not kind or good for
either of you it's better to work with
the person rather than risk missing out
on a ton of knowledge that may prove
invaluable to the whole team's efforts
number eight your best friend doesn't
watch scary movies but she loved this
one particular actor who happens to be
in a horror flick you want to see what
do you do invite your friend but don't
tell her the genre of the movie or
invite her but make sure she knows what
she's getting into a key aspect of
wisdom is emotional intelligence which
is the ability to understand people and
empathize with their feelings being able
to sense and respect others emotions
helps you build good relationships and
predict how your friends will react in
any number of situations in this
particular scenario surprising your
friend with the genre of the movie is
really cruel it is however wise to give
her the choice whether to come to see
her favorite actor or not
number nine you're doing some holiday
shopping do you buy things well in
advance or buy everything the week or
even the day before so you can save time
unless you can predict the future with
perfect accuracy you probably fall
victim to unexpected circumstances just
like the rest of us wise people make
plans and contingencies for when their
original plans fall through if you do
all your shopping at the last minute
you're gonna waste precious time waiting
in long lines at stores plus you risk
not being able to find what you wanted
to buy and end up having to settle for
some second-rate gift because that's all
they had available wise people know how
to make their lives easier and avoid
stress when they can number 10 a big
test is coming up at school and you're
only about 70 percent confident in your
knowledge of the material do you study
extra just in case there might be
something you don't know in the test or
trust the knowledge you have worst case
scenario you'll at least barely pass
well it's possible that the test will
catch you completely off-guard and at
that point it'll be too late to go back
and study you might make it through okay
but you'll have to expend a lot more
energy and brain power than you expect
it and that could affect your
performance on the test it's wise to be
prepared for any situation to assume
that the test is going to be harder than
you think hope for the best plan for the
worst that's the wisest thing to do all
right now let's see how you did if you
made the wiser decision in all or most
of these situations congratulations you
look for the essence of things respect
other people's feelings and know that
those who overestimate their knowledge
are rarely successful you know your
strengths but at the same time
acknowledge your weaknesses you plan
ahead adapt to change and actively work
to develop your skills and knowledge on
the other hand if you chose the
short-sighted answer in five or more of
the situations you may have an
incomplete view of things you tend to
easily take risks and your odds of
success aren't always high do a little
more soul-searching and thinking things
through consider all the possible
consequences of your actions and how
they'll impact you and those around you
[Music]
here's a bonus which girl in this
picture seems happier
if you chose a then the left hemisphere
of your brain might be more developed
than the right side is it easier for you
to learn math foreign languages and
solve logical tasks those are all
specialties of the left hemisphere oh
and your emotions probably don't get in
the way of your critical thinking too
much now if you pick B then the right
hemisphere of your brain is most likely
in charge are you really good at
recognizing people's emotions are you
talented with musical instruments or
drawing the right hemisphere of your
brain specializes in these fields your
imagination is probably pretty powerful
too
[Music]
so how did you do do you have common
sense and wisdom are you a left or right
brainer tell us in the comments below
and don't forget to Like share and
subscribe for more fun and useful videos
right here on the bright side of life